---------------------------------
 The "Offline" Chatdraw Animator
---------------------------------

 randomouscrap98@aol.com - 2018

 Only tested on new-ish Google Chrome on Windows. Not sure if it works on
 mobile Chrome or Firefox or anything else. Use at your own risk; I assume no
 responsibility for lost work.

 This wouldn't have been made without the input and inspiring talent of TiP.


-- Background --

 I run a website called "SmileBASIC Source". It's for programmers but whatever.

 There's a chatroom with a simple drawing utility. Eventually it got upgraded
 into an animation utility. Then someone wanted ANYONE to be able to use the
 utility without being in chat or logged into this website.
 
 This is that utility taken directly from that chatroom and plastered into 
 another webpage. Extra tools have been added so you can save and load to files 
 instead of my server.


-- About --

 This is a VERY simple drawing and animation tool. The drawings were originally
 sent in chat as TEXT, so the drawings were very small and restricted to 4 
 colors. There are not very many tools and no panning/zooming/etc.
 
 This utility allows you to create drawings and animations with 4 colors of 
 your choosing on a 200x100 canvas. You can save these drawings and animations
 as a text file on your computer, then load them later. You can also export your
 animations as a gif to the crappy image uploader called "kland" (also part of
 my website).


-- Getting Started --

 Remember, this was pulled as-is directly from chat, so it will seem weird.

 First, click on the pencil at the bottom right of the screen to bring up the
 utility. Clicking the pencil again will hide it again.

 The pane on the left are the animation controls and frames. You can add new
 frames, set the frame time, control the onionskin, toggle looping, export, and
 play your animation over here. Each frame also has some controls for setting
 an individual frame time, copying, pasting, and deleting frames.

 The larger area on the right has the canvas and drawing controls. The top row
 has scaling, undo/redo, colors, and a disabled send button (you can't send
 since you're not in chat). The bottom row has shift canvas, clear, pen size
 toggle, flood fill, line, freehand, and the utitility toggle. 


-- Drawing Tools --

 Clicking on the colors lets you change them. However, you can only have 4
 colors at a time, so changing one of them will change all pixels of that
 color. You can have different colors per frame of animation.

 Clicking the number underneath the colors cycles the general tool size. 
 Clicking the tools also cycles through their types: clicking the fill tool 
 multiple times will change it to a full-cover tool. Clicking the line tool
 toggles it to a square tool. Clicking the freehand tool toggles to slow-line
 (a fountain pen) then to ms-paint style spraycan. The selected tool is always
 highlighted.

 ◘ = flood fill
 ◼ = full cover
 ▬ = straight line
 ◻ = square outline
 ✏ = freehand
 ✒ = slow freehand (lag brush)
 ⚟ = ms-paint spraycan

 NOTE: You can only undo the last 5 actions. Switching animation frames will
 clear all undos, so be careful.
 NOTE: The "send drawing" button ➥ is disabled since there is no chat.

 ◲ = utility scale (bigger/smaller)
 ↶ = undo
 ↷ = redo
 ↭ = move drawing
 ✖ = clear all (can undo)
 ✎ = toggle utility

 NOTE: The "clear all" button attempts to find your "background" color. It is
 either the lightest color or the darkest color, depending on the context. If
 it is confusing or not doing what you expect, you can instead use the "full
 cover" tool to fill the whole screen with your selected color. The "clear all"
 button is there for legacy purposes.


-- Animation Tools --

 The animation pane is on the left, remember. The controls are on the top of
 this pane. The controls at the bottom (Animation Name, etc) are UNUSABLE 
 unless you are logged into SmileBASIC Source. Just assume they don't work.

 All animation controls have hover text, so if you forget just hover over it.

 The textbox next to the "new frame" button is the default "frame time". Frame
 time in this utility is measured by 1/60th of a second. A frame time of 3
 means every frame in your animation will be on screen for 3/60th of a second.
 The "fps" of your animation will then be 60 / frame time, so a frame time of 3
 will mean a 20fps animation.

 The "0" next to the frame time is the onionskin. It counts up to 3, then falls
 down to -3. It is the amount of frames to show for the onionskin; positive
 values for normal "past frames" onionskin, and negative values for reverse
 "future frames" onionskin. 
 
 The little truck is the export button. Exporting may take a while, so please
 be patient. After the export is finished, a popup should show up. Your browser
 is MOST LIKELY blocking popups, so make sure you look at the top right corner
 of the browser for the blocked popup. I talk more about exporting later.

 The disabled button is stuff from the chat. You don't need it.

 The very last button is the play/pause button. It will start the animation
 from the currently selected frame and play to the end. If looping is enabled,
 it will play until you stop it. The animation is shown in the drawing area,
 and you will lose your undos, so please be careful.

 Each frame can override the default frame time to set their own time. This is
 useful if you want a certain frame to be on screen longer, like a titlecard.
 The other controls are for copying and pasting frames. The frames are NOT
 stored on your system clipboard, so you can't copy a frame then paste it into
 PAINT or something. The X on the right of the frame deletes it. Please be
 careful.

 You cannot reorder frames by dragging them. You have to copy/paste/delete.
 Please keep this in mind while animating.


-- Saving and Loading --

 Make sure you save often! I don't know how stable all this is; I'm not
 perfect! 

 The OLD saving and loading system used SmileBASIC Source logins and data. It's
 the controls at the bottom of the animation pane on the left (that textbox
 with Animation Name and the paper/pencil/hand/L). You can't use these unless
 you're logged into my website, so just ignore them.

 The NEW saving system is up at the top of the page. The animations are stored
 as text files on your computer that you can save/load whenever, even if you're
 not online. 

 To save, enter a name for your animation and click "Generate". A link will be
 created on the right; click it to download your save. Browsers are silly and 
 don't let me start a download FOR you, so you have to do this 2 step process.
 I'm sorry: just generate THEN download.

 To load, just browse for the file on your computer using the file thingy
 there, then click load. It SHOULD show a confirmation. Remember, it WILL
 overwrite whatever is currently in the animator utility!


-- Exporting Notes --
 
 When you export, you are sending a bunch of data to my server so it can
 assemble all your frames into a gif. It can take a while... I'm sorry. I put
 the completed gif into my image uploader service called "kland" in a PUBLIC 
 bucket (folder) of your choice. Then your gif SHOULD show up in a popup, but
 most browsers block popups. The blocked popop will usually show up on the top
 of the browser. In chrome, it's in the URL bar all the way on the right. 

 kland is a public image uploader with no logins. Pictures are organized into
 "buckets", which are like public folders that anybody can access. So the only 
 "security" is choosing a bucket name nobody will guess. If you don't care 
 about privacy, you can keep the default bucket of "chatDrawAnimations" that 
 you see at the top of the screen.

 I recommend changing the bucket to something only you would know and not
 giving it out to anybody, that way nobody can see what you export.

 The link next to the bucket name will take you to kland so you can see all
 your exports. If you're using the default bucket, you'll see a bunch of other
 exports from other people who also use the default bucket. 

 You can have as many "buckets" as you want. They're like folders: you could
 put all your nsfw exports into some secretly named bucket, then put all your
 tame stuff in a bucket that you give out.

 If you need more help with kland, please let me know. My email is at the top
 of this document.

 NOTE: Unfortunately, web browsers can't make gifs, so I HAVE to do it on my 
 server.  I wish I could just give you the gif locally so you can download it 
 like the save files... but I can't.


